---
layout: post
title: "The Evolution of Values: The Game of Empowered Living"
date: 2023-08-28 00:00:00
image: /assets/images/blog/serendipitous_insights/logo_0.jpg
tags: insights personal_values
description: Imagine having a set of guiding ideas that help you make sense of things.
permalink: /2023/08/28/the_evolution_of_values_the_game_of_empowered_living.html
---

<article id="0f94d13d-1ad9-4faa-910a-5312b19baffa" class="page sans"><header><h1 class="page-title"><strong>The Evolution of Values:</strong> The Game of Empowered Living</h1><p class="page-description"></p></header><div class="page-body"><p id="bd767fbe-69f9-47d4-aee0-3da6bb32e557" class="">Ever notice how life keeps changing, just like the seasons? I&#x27;ve been thinking about this journey I&#x27;ve been on, and I want to share something with you. Imagine having a set of guiding ideas that help you make sense of things. That&#x27;s what I&#x27;m trying to figure out—a simple system to live by.</p><p id="1760ac49-d946-43b2-a898-4453f0f4c732" class=""><strong>Growing and Changing, Just Like Everything Else</strong></p><p id="0c521ed8-8ffd-493c-83a2-b3de36fc7470" class="">Remember how you used to play your favorite game and get better each time? Well, life is a lot like that. As we go through different days, months, and years, we learn stuff and become different from before. It&#x27;s like leveling up, but for real life.</p><p id="651e566d-9159-42e7-a8cb-d08e657ce207" class=""><strong>Can Values Stay the Same?</strong></p><p id="a560b6ae-9fb3-4a7f-859a-3ae9bb27e5a3" class="">I used to believe that certain things would never change, like what I think is important. But then I started realizing that life is a bit like a moving river. What matters to me now might not be the same in the future. And that&#x27;s not a bad thing—it&#x27;s how we grow.</p><p id="7028e6ee-e613-423d-9e59-6595d48d3fe3" class=""><strong>Finding My Own Roadmap</strong></p><p id="7ddbcd0f-1599-47d9-a88c-c76da6dfb1ca" class="">Imagine having a map that helps you find your way in a big, changing world. That&#x27;s what a personal system is like. It&#x27;s not a strict set of rules, but more like a friendly guide. It&#x27;s made up of ideas that mean a lot to me right now, like freedom, working hard, and treating everyone with kindness.</p><p id="d35116d2-7013-427f-9d08-918391eaf5f8" class=""><strong>Life&#x27;s Adventure Continues</strong></p><p id="f87d46d0-3994-4bca-ba4f-f58c2fc2c292" class="">So, can we really put all our thoughts and feelings into a list of rules? I don&#x27;t think so. But we can have a flexible set of ideas that remind us who we want to be, even as life keeps surprising us.</p><p id="b8d4b4a9-ac3f-4998-bc43-c03279a6e2be" class="">
</p><p id="d40e0e1f-66d5-48cb-abe3-547db1797041" class="">I hope I can agree with myself in the future years of my existence.</p><ol type="1" id="7eb88c03-92d9-453b-b650-95b5e99f9cdd" class="numbered-list" start="1"><li><strong>Embrace Freedom:</strong> Live your life on your terms, making choices that honor your individuality and passions. Just as every character in a game is unique, celebrate your own uniqueness and the diverse journeys of others.</li></ol><ol type="1" id="37b6908a-68f0-49ee-a885-0f20434ddcf1" class="numbered-list" start="2"><li><strong>Cultivate Independence:</strong> Strive to be self-reliant, capable of navigating life&#x27;s challenges with confidence. Just as a player masters the game mechanics, become adept at handling situations through your skills and resourcefulness.</li></ol><ol type="1" id="f175ee4a-5ce4-44db-84e9-899c99df33e2" class="numbered-list" start="3"><li><strong>Dive into Deep Focus:</strong> Channel your energy into pursuits that truly matter to you. Just as a gamer focuses intensely on their objective, immerse yourself fully in your tasks to achieve your goals effectively.</li></ol><ol type="1" id="b719b9ef-c1ff-464f-86a2-ec76b21ef526" class="numbered-list" start="4"><li><strong>Champion Hard Work:</strong> Recognize that progress is the result of dedication and effort. Just as leveling up in a game requires consistent grinding, embrace hard work as a means to unlock your full potential.</li></ol><ol type="1" id="a03a2efa-9874-4c17-a7fc-4249e8d1194e" class="numbered-list" start="5"><li><strong>Unity in Diversity:</strong> Embrace the idea that, like characters in a game, every individual is part of the same interconnected existence. Treat everyone with empathy and respect, knowing that each person contributes to the beauty of life&#x27;s diverse tapestry.</li></ol><ol type="1" id="002e7295-5f91-4c28-ab71-8dfac5f35916" class="numbered-list" start="6"><li><strong>Life as a Game:</strong> Approach life with a playful spirit, viewing challenges as opportunities for growth. Just as a game&#x27;s obstacles are meant to be overcome, see life&#x27;s challenges as chances to level up and become a stronger version of yourself.</li></ol><ol type="1" id="5a798bad-00c1-44f1-9c17-deefa599edb5" class="numbered-list" start="7"><li><strong>Live The Egg&#x27;s Wisdom:</strong> Remember the profound lesson from &quot;The Egg&quot; by Andy Weir – that we are all interconnected parts of a greater whole. Treat others as you would yourself, understanding that everyone&#x27;s journey is part of the same cosmic game.</li></ol><ol type="1" id="7372c1cf-2697-4489-b485-f71dd81262d9" class="numbered-list" start="8"><li><strong>Brio Infusion:</strong> Infuse your actions with the vibrant spirit of &quot;brio,&quot; embracing enthusiasm, vivacity, and passion in everything you do. Just as a game becomes more exciting with enthusiastic players, infuse every moment with your unique brio.</li></ol></div></article>